Hi, my name is Steve and I am the head
of Front Engineering at Temporal.
But we're gonna talk about design today.
Well, we're gonna talk about the
connection between design and engineering.
The origin story of me getting started
with Figma was more of a startup tale,
which is as the first front end engineer
at the startup I work at now that
has a full design team and
a whole front end engineering team.
I kind of inherited some person of
the company is like ideas in Figma
about what the UI should look like.
Right, and
then having to iterate on that, I had
to learn a lot about how Figma works.
And what I figured out was one,
actually it's pretty cool and
it's an awesome tool and
you should learn how to use it.
But then two, as now we have a full
design team with a head of design and
three product designers and
all those things,
I've got an engineering
team of six people.
But what's super fascinating is that
over time we begin to learn that knowing
how the design tools work and
also what that means for code.
Allows for more collaboration
between the design teams and
the engineering teams, right?
There are ways that
the engineering teams can now, or
my engineering team can help inform
design team like, if we structure
stuff like this, it actually makes our
job of implementing it way easier.
The other interesting thing is as
we'll see in this course is that
there are a bunch of
techniques in figma to,
let's say we have a whole color system or
a spacing and
kind of those design tokens as you hear
in a lot of design systems speak, right?
There are ways to kind of
generate at least not code,
you're never gonna generate a React
component that you can just copy and
paste and move forward with that,
yet at least.
But stuff like generating
all of the CSS variables for
the various colors found
throughout your design system.
There are tools built into figma that
will make your life a lot easier.
The other thing is that a lot of you know
designers will structure things in a way
that makes sense for them.
And helps them work cleanly but like
are ways that once you understand both,
how it works on the whatever whether
it's vanilla JavaScript Reacts Svelte,
what have you side.
And then also hey, but
if we also structured it in this way,
the'll actually translate better when we
go to implement in code, and for a lot
of these things will actually make the
designers in your lives easier as well.
Designs in your lives will
make their lives easier.
And so those things are important as well.
And there's a lot of new functionality
that's come out in the last
few years in figma wher,
there's a lot of concepts.
I will use some words of some various
new figma features, variables.
All right there are components and
stuff along those lines,
things that kind of make sense
to us as developers because
they map to very engineering
related concepts.
And sometimes you're gonna
work on a side project.
And when you work on that side project,
you might be helpful to at least
know how to use design tools.
So you don't end up like me where I
started to start designing with Git and
Nit and create React app or
Svelte kit or what have you.
And find myself tweaking CSS just
general I think the basic flow.
A lot of the reason why these tools exist
is because it is easier to kind of think
about the UI in a design tool and
do some of the prototyping.
Towards the end we'll take a very brief
look at some of the prototyping tools
in Figma.
Because one of the biggest things
that will save you time is if we
can take working prototypes to customers
and be able to figure out like,
do you even want this thing?
Before we go ahead and build it, right?
And so all of these things both, I think,
make it easier to learn how to use figma
from a developer perspective, right?
Because yeah,
we're all developers in this room,
I can make jokes about prototypal
inheritance and you'll get them.
And they kind of make a lot of these
concepts a lot easier cuz in my experience
there's not a lot of content out
there about using Figma targeted
at people who also might be on
the implementing side of this as well.
One quick caveat to point out is the large
majority of everything we're gonna
do until close to the very end of this
workshop is all in the free Tierra Figma.
There are some things
towards the very end,
particularly like variable modes for
doing stuff like dark mode, or
various responsive text that
does involve a paid account.
Stuff like publishing a shared library
does involve a paid account, there is no
expectation that you have a paid Figma
account today, take this course.
I will take you and show you some of these
things in my paid Figma account because
I have it both personally and
through Temporal.
But we'll go ahead and see some of those
features cuz you might also work in
a place eventually that has it or
have it at your work.
And I wanna at least kinda expose you
to some of those things because, again,
for that design team
engineering like integration.
I think a lot of that is where
a lot of the real benefit is here.
So if you are a developer, obviously,
like this course is targeted at you.
But honestly, if you're also a designer,
like understanding the same way the value
prop for developers is understanding
the design tools figure out
how that integration works.
The inverse is all also true So
the only thing I will say is that,
you know, I am an engineer.
I'm not a designer, I work with designers
Sometimes I pretend to be a designer.
So this is definitely from the how
do we kind of structure and
use all these tools and, you know,
how does that inform implementation?
I will get a little hand wavy when
it comes to stuff like color theory.
And you have a typography here
because that is not my skill set.
But there's a whole section on front end
masters that you can definitely watch
courses on that and
see how all that all those pieces work.
So this is kind of like a design tool from
the perspective of a front end engineer.